doc: add document for flux (#815)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.6.0/deploy/install/install-with-flux.md

---
title: Install with Flux
weight: 11
---

## Prerequisites
- Your workstation: Install [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/) v3.0 or later.
- Kubernetes cluster:
  - Ensure that each node fulfills the [installation requirements](../#installation-requirements).

>   - Follow the [official document](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/#install-the-flux-cli) to install Flux CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Install the Flux CLI](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/#install-the-flux-cli).
  - [Bootstrap Flux with GitHub](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/bootstrap/github/) using the Flux CLI.

    Run the following commands to export your GitHub personal access token (PAT) as an environment variable, deploy the Flux controllers on your cluster, and configure the controllers to sync the cluster state from the specified GitHub repository.

    ```bash
    export GITHUB_TOKEN=<gh-token>
    flux bootstrap github \
      --token-auth \
      --owner=<github_username> \
      --repository=<github_repo_name> \
      --branch=<branch_name> \
      --path=<folder_path_within_repo> \
      --personal
    ```
```

Reviewer: I moved the bootstrap info here and expanded the code block intro to improve the procedure's overall flow.

> Use [this script](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/blob/v{{< current-version >}}/scripts/environment_check.sh) to check the Longhorn environment for potential issues.

## Bootstrap Flux with GitOps Repository

1. Follow the [official document](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/bootstrap/github/) to use the Flux CLI to bootstrap Flux with your GitOps repository on GitHub:

    ```bash
    export GITHUB_TOKEN=<gh-token>
    flux bootstrap github \
      --token-auth \
      --owner=<github_username> \
      --repository=<github_repo_name> \
      --branch=<branch_name> \
      --path=<folder_path_within_repo> \
      --personal
    ```

>     This command initializes Flux in your cluster and sets up the sync with your specified GitOps repository.

Reviewer: Please remove this. I moved the info to the Prerequisites section.

## Installing Longhorn

> 1. Create HelmRepository Custom Resource pointing to the Longhorn Helm chart URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a HelmRepository custom resource (CR) that points to the Longhorn Helm chart URL.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl create ns longhorn-system
    flux create source helm longhorn-repo \
      --url=https://charts.longhorn.io \
      --namespace=longhorn-system \
      --export > helmrepo.yaml
    ```

> 2. Create HelmRelease Custom Resource that references the HelmRepository and specifies the version of the Longhorn Helm chart to be installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a HelmRelease CR that references the HelmRepository and specifies the version of the Longhorn Helm chart to be installed.
```

    ```bash
    flux create helmrelease longhorn-release \
      --chart=longhorn \
      --source=HelmRepository/longhorn-repo \
      --chart-version=1.6.0 \
      --namespace=longhorn-system \
      --export > helmrelease.yaml
    ```

> 3. Verify that the GitRepo CR was created and synced successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that the HelmRelease CR was created and synced successfully.
```

Reviewer: The best practice is to use "1." for all ordered list items.

    ```bash
    flux get helmrelease longhorn-release -n longhorn-system
    ```

> 4. Verify that Longhorn was installed successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that Longhorn was installed successfully.
```

    csi-snapshotter-588457fcdf-2wd6g                    1/1     Running   0          100s
    csi-provisioner-869bdc4b79-mzrwf                    1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-provisioner-869bdc4b79-klgfm                    1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-resizer-6d8cf5f99f-fd2ck                        1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-provisioner-869bdc4b79-j46rx                    1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-snapshotter-588457fcdf-bvjdt                    1/1     Running   0          100s
    csi-resizer-6d8cf5f99f-68cw7                        1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-attacher-7bf4b7f996-df8v6                       1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-attacher-7bf4b7f996-g9cwc                       1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-attacher-7bf4b7f996-8l9sw                       1/1     Running   0          101s
    csi-resizer-6d8cf5f99f-smdjw                        1/1     Running   0          101s
    instance-manager-b34d5db1fe1e2d52bcfb308be3166cfc   1/1     Running   0          114s
    engine-image-ei-df38d2e5-cv6nc                      1/1     Running   0          114s
    ```

> 5. [Create an NGINX Ingress controller with basic authentication](../../accessing-the-ui/longhorn-ingress) to access the Longhorn UI. Authentication to the Longhorn UI is not enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create an NGINX Ingress controller with basic authentication](../../accessing-the-ui/longhorn-ingress) to access the Longhorn UI. Authentication to the Longhorn UI is not enabled by default.
```

> 6. [Access the Longhorn UI](../../accessing-the-ui).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Access the Longhorn UI](../../accessing-the-ui).
```

## Continuous Operations via GitOps

> 1. Commit and push exported manifests to your GitOps Repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can commit and push exported manifests to your GitOps repository.
```

    ```bash
    git add helmrepo.yaml helmrelease.yaml
    git commit -m "Add HelmRepository and HelmRelease for Longhorn installation"
    git push origin <branch_name>
   ```

>    From this point forward, any modifications or updates to the HelmRelease or HelmRepository can be made by editing the YAML manifests in your GitOps repository. Flux will automatically detect these changes and apply them to your Kubernetes cluster accordingly, enabling further operations via Git push without direct access to the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards, you can modify the HelmRelease and HelmRepository CRs by editing the YAML manifests in your GitOps repository. Flux automatically detects and applies the changes without requiring direct access to your Kubernetes cluster.
```
